《泰戈尔诗集》经典语录中英文对照版
https://doc.guandang.net/b099ac40a44169611081de60d.html

1.如果你因失去了太阳而流泪，那么你也失去了群星。
If you shed tears when you miss the sun, you also miss the stars.

2.我的心是旷野的鸟，在你的眼睛里找到了它的天空。
My heart, the bird of the wilderness, has found its sky in your eyes.

3.它是大地的泪点，使她的微笑保持着青春不谢。
It is the tears of the earth that keep her smiles in bloom.

4.你看不见你自己，你所看见的只是你的影子。
What you are you do not see, what you see is your shadow.

5.瀑布歌唱道："当我找到了自己的自由时，我找到了我的歌。"
The waterfall sing, "I find my song, when I find my freedom."

6.你微微地笑着，不同我说什么话。而我觉得，为了这个，我已等待得久了。
You smiled and talked to me of nothing and I felt that for this I had been waiting long.

7.人不能在他的历史中表现出他自己，他在历史中奋斗着露出头角。
Man does not reveal himself in his history, he struggles up through it.

8.我们如海鸥之与波涛相遇似地，遇见了，走近了。海鸥飞去，波涛滚滚地流开，我们也分别了。
Like the meeting of the seagulls and the waves we meet and come near.The seagulls fly off, the waves roll away and we depart.

9.当我们是大为谦卑的时候，便是我们最接近伟大的时候。
We come nearest to the great when we are great in humility.

10.决不要害怕刹那－－永恒之声这样唱着。
Never be afraid of the moments--thus sings the voice of the everlasting.

11."完全"为了对"不全"的爱，把自己装饰得美丽。
The perfect decks itself in beauty for the love of the Imperfect.

12.错误经不起失败，但是真理却不怕失败。
Wrong cannot afford defeat but right can.

13.这寡独的黄昏，幕着雾与雨，我在我的心的孤寂里，感觉到它的叹息。
In my solitude of heart I feel the sigh of this widowed evening veiled with mist and rain.

14.我们把世界看错了，反说它欺骗我们。
We read the world wrong and say that it deceives us.

15.人对他自己建筑起堤防来。
Man barricades against himself.

16.使生如夏花之绚烂，死如秋叶之静美。
Let life be beautiful like summer flowers and death like autumn leaves.

17.我想起了其他的浮泛在生与死与爱以及被遗忘的川流上的的时代，我便感觉到离开尘世的自由了。
I think of other ages that floated upon the stream of life and love and death and are forgotten, and I feel the freedom of passing away.

18.只管走过去，不必逗留着采了花朵来保存，因为一路上花朵自会继续开放的。
Do not linger to gather flowers to keep them, but walk on,for flowers will keep themselves blooming all your way.

19.思想掠过我的心上，如一群野鸭飞过天空。我听见它们鼓翼之声了。
Thoughts pass in my mind like flocks of lucks in the sky.I hear the voice of their wings.

20."谁如命运似的催着我向前走呢？""那是我自己，在身背后大跨步走着。"
Who drives me forward like fate? The Myself striding on my back.

21.我们的欲望把彩虹的颜色借给那只不过是云雾的人生。
Our desire lends the colours of the rainbow to the mere mists and vapours of life.